.\"
.\" $Id: web500gw.8,v 1.3 2001/04/26 22:30:40 dekarl Exp $
.\"
.TH WEB500GW 8C "February 1998" "TU Chemnitz, Germany"
.SH NAME
web500gw \- World Wide Web to LDAP / X.500 gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B INSTDIR/web500gw [\-I] [\-p port] [\-P ldapport] 
.B [\-x ldaphost] [\-l] [\-a] [\-s default_language]
.B [\-e etcdir] [\-c configfile] [\-t urlpath]
.B [\-d web500gw_debuglevel] [\-D LDAP_debuglevel] [\-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I web500gw
is a World Wide Web to X.500 gateway daemon.
It speaks HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) on one side and LDAPv2
on the other.  
It presents the X.500 DIT as a tree of menus,
search forms, and documents in HTML, supporting browsing, searching and, 
experimental, modifying of X.500 via a WWW client.  
By default, it listens on port 8888 for connections from WWW clients.
.LP
What you are trying to set up looks like this:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
 ------          ----------          ------ <-Stand-
| WWW  |        | HTTP to  |        |LDAP  |  alone ________
|client|<-HTTP->| LDAP g/w |<-LDAP->|server|   or  |X.500DSA|
|______|        |__________|        |______|<-DAP->|________|
                  web500gw        ldapd/slapd
.ft
.fi
.LP
The web500gw server can be run either as stand-alone server,
as nph-CGI program or from inetd
.SH STAND-ALONE OPERATION
It is recommended to start web500gw as a stand-alone server. 
Simply start it with no arguments
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	INSTDIR/web500gw
.ft
.fi
.LP
If you would like to start it at boot time add some lines like this to
the /etc/rc.local or equivalent file:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	if [ -f INSTDIR/web500gw ]; then
		INSTDIR/web500gw; echo ' web500gw'
	fi
.ft
.fi
.SH OPERATION WITH INETD
To arrange to have web500gw started from inetd, the Internet protocol
daemon, add a line like the following to your /etc/services
file, or the equivalent:
.LP
.nf
    web500gw           8888/tcp        web500gw
.fi
.LP
Next, add a line like this to your /etc/inetd.conf file, or the
equivalent:
.LP
.nf
    web500gw  stream  tcp  nowait  nobody  INSTDIR/web500gw    web500gw -I
.fi
.LP
For these changes to take effect with inetd, you will probably have
to send it it a HUP signal.  See inetd(8) for more details.
.SH WWW CONFIGURATION
The next step is to tell your WWW client how to access web500gw.
For testing purposes you specify the URL to follow. Later you should 
write a HTML document containing a (some) link(s) to X.500 data via web500gw.
Some example URL's are given below, with the things you should
change given in <>'s:
.LP
.nf
   http://<host.running.web500gw>:8888/
            - List (Menu) on root level
   http://<host.running.web500gw>:8888/c=DE
            - List on c=DE level
   http://<host.running.web500gw>:8888/o=Technische Universitaet Chemnitz-Zwickau, c=DE
            - Read entry
   http://<host.running.web500gw>:8888/H
            - Help page
.fi
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Search aliases when doing X.500 searches.  The default is not to
search aliases.
.TP
.B \-c configfile
Specify an alternate common configuration file. 
.TP
.B \-d level
Turn on web500gw's debugging as defined by
.I level.
If this option is specified,
.I web500gw
will not fork or disassociate from the invoking terminal.  Some general
operation and status messages are printed for any value of \fIlevel\fP.
\fIlevel\fP is taken as a bit string, with each bit corresponding to a
different kind of debugging information.  See \fIweb500 -v\fP
for details.
.TP
.B \-D level
Turn on LDAP's debugging as defined by
.I level.
If this option is specified,
.I web500gw
will not fork or disassociate from the invoking terminal.
.TP
.B \-e etcdir
Specify an alternate directory containing template/filter/help files.
.TP
.B \-l
Enable logging of various status and errors to the LOG_LOCAL3 facility via
syslog(8). The format of the log entries is configurable, see the
Website below for details.
.TP
.B \-p port
Specify an alternate port on which to listen for connections from Web
clients.
.TP
.B \-P ldapport
Specify an alternate port on which to contact the LDAP server.
.TP
.B \-s default_language
Specify an alternate default language.
.TP
.B \-t urlpath
Testmode, prints out the HTML page for this URL and exists.
.TP
.B \-v
Prints Copyright, version, configuration, and usage information and exits.
.TP
.B \-x ldaphost
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
.TP
.B \-I
Run from inetd(8).
.SH NOTES
Some implementations of inetd have a small limit on the number of arguments
that can be specified in the /etc/inetd.conf(5) file.  This can cause
problems if you are using web500gw with a lot of arguments.
.LP
The default values for most of the options can be set within
the common configuration file WEB500GWDIR/web500gw.conf, see
the Website below for details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap(3),
.BR ldap_getfilter(3),
.BR inetd(8),
.BR go500gw(8)
.LP
.nf
.ft B
Online documentation: http://web500gw.sourceforge.net/
.ft
.fi
